KZL 757 - Getting Started with Node.js (#145)
kuzzleio/documentation-V2: src/sdk-reference/js/6/getting-started/node-js/index.md

We will walk you through creating scripts that can **store** documents in Kuzzle and subscribe to **notifications** about document creations.

You are going to create scripts that can **store** documents in Kuzzle and subscribe to **notification** for each new document created.

To do this tutorial, you must have a Kuzzle ready and running. Follow these instructions if this is not already done yet: [Running Kuzzle]({{ site_base_path }}guide/1/getting-started/running-kuzzle).

## Fun with the SDK

It's time to play with the [Kuzzle Javascript SDK]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6). This section, explains you how to store a document and subscribe to notifications in Kuzzle using the Javascript SDK.

Before proceeding, please make sure your system has **Node.js** version 8 or higher (<a href="https://nodejs.org/en/download/">instructions here</a>) installed.

## Prepare your environment

Create your playground directory and install the [Javascript SDK]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6) from the command line using npm:

```sh
mkdir "kuzzle-playground"
cd "kuzzle-playground"
npm install git://github.com/kuzzleio/sdk-javascript.git#6-beta
```

<div class="alert alert-info">

> If you are performing a clean install you might see some `UNMET PEER DEPENDENCY` warnings, these are safe to ignore as they refer to optional dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are performing a clean install you might get some `UNMET PEER DEPENDENCY` warnings, these are safe to ignore as they refer to optional dependencies.
```

</div>

Then, create an `init.js` file and start by adding the code below.  
This loads the SDK and connects it to a Kuzzle instance using WebSocket.  

[snippet=load-sdk]

<div class="alert alert-info">

> Replace 'kuzzle' which is the Kuzzle backend hostname with 'localhost' or the hostname where your Kuzzle backend is running.

Reviewer: https://confluence.kaliop.net/display/LABS/2018-02-21+Meeting+notes++-+Kuzzle+products+naming
I think we should use Kuzzle Server instead of Kuzzle backend

  <li>Try one of <a href="{{ site_base_path }}guide/1/essentials/installing-kuzzle/">these</a> alternative installation methods.</li>
</ul>
</div>

## Fun with the SDK

It's time to play with the [Kuzzle Javscript SDK]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6). In this section, we will store a document and subscribe to notifications in Kuzzle using the Javascript SDK.

Before proceeding, please make sure your system has **Node.js** version 8 or higher (<a href="https://nodejs.org/en/download/">instructions here</a>) installed.

## Prepare your environment

Create your playground directory and install the [Javascript SDK]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6) from the command line using npm:

```sh
mkdir "kuzzle-playground"
cd "kuzzle-playground"
npm install git://github.com/kuzzleio/sdk-javascript.git#6-beta
```

<div class="alert alert-info">
If you are performing a clean install you might see some `UNMET PEER DEPENDENCY` warnings, these are safe to ignore as they refer to optional dependencies.
</div>

Then, create an `init.js` file and start by adding the code below.  

> This will load the Kuzzle Javascript SDK and then instantiate a client that will connect to Kuzzle via websockets.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This loads the SDK and connects it to a Kuzzle instance using WebSocket.  
```

[snippet=load-sdk]

<div class="alert alert-info">

> You need to replace 'kuzzle' which is the Kuzzle backend hostname with 'localhost' or the hostname where your Kuzzle backend is running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replace 'kuzzle' which is the Kuzzle backend hostname with 'localhost' or the hostname where your Kuzzle backend is running.
```

</div>

> Next we add a listener to be notified in case of connection error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, add a listener to be notified in case of a connection error:
```

```javascript
kuzzle.on('networkError', error => {
  console.error('Network Error: ', error);
});
```

> Then we have to connect the client to your Kuzzle server with the `connect()` method.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, connect the client to your Kuzzle server with the `connect()` method.  
```

Reviewer 2: This sentence should make clearer that it actually explains what the next code snippet does, and it should be merged with the next sentence to prevent users thinking that a code example is missing (it was my 1st assumption)

Then, we will add the code that will access Kuzzle to create a new index 'nyc-open-data' and a new collection 'yellow-taxi' that we will use to store data later on.  

> These methods will be wrapped in an `async` function to use the `await` construct.

Reviewer 2: We should not explain how Javascript works.

```suggestion
```

[snippet=prepare-db]

Your `init.js` file should now look like this:

[snippet=init]

This code does the following:
* loads the `Kuzzle SDK` from its NPM package
* creates an instance of the SDK

> * connects it to Kuzzle running on `kuzzle` (change your hostname if you need) with the `websocket` protocol

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* connects it to Kuzzle running on `kuzzle` (change the hostname if needed) using WebSocket
```

* creates the `nyc-open-data` index
* creates the `yellow-taxi` collection (within the `nyc-open-data` index),
* disconnects from Kuzzle after the collection is created or if an error occurs

> Run your file with Node.js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the code with Node.js:
```

```bash
node init.js
```

> Your console should output the following message:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The console should output the following message:
```

```bash
nyc-open-data/yellow-taxi ready!
```

<div class="alert alert-success">
Congratulations! You are now ready to say Hello to the World!
</div>

<div class="alert alert-info">
Having trouble? Get in touch with us on <a href="https://gitter.im/kuzzleio/kuzzle">Gitter!</a> We're happy to help.
</div>

## Create your first "Hello World" document

> Create a `create.js` file with following code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a `create.js` file with the following code:
```

[snippet=create]

This code does the following:

> * creates a new document in `nyc-open-data` within the `yellow-taxi` index

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* creates a new document in the `yellow-taxi` collection, within the `nyc-open-data` index
```

* logs a success message to the console if everything went fine

> * logs an error message if any of the previous actions failed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* logs an error message if any of the previous actions fails
```

* disconnects from Kuzzle after the document is created or if an error occurs

> Run your file with Node.js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the code with Node.js:
```

```bash
node create.js
```

<div class="alert alert-success">
You have now successfully stored your first document into Kuzzle. Click <a href="{{ site_base_path }}guide/1/essentials/installing-console">here</a> to see how you can use the
   <a href="http://console.kuzzle.io" target="_blank"><strong>Kuzzle Admin Console</strong></a> to browse your collection and confirm that your document was saved.
</div>

<div class="alert alert-info">
Having trouble? Get in touch with us on <a href="https://gitter.im/kuzzleio/kuzzle">Gitter!</a> We're happy to help.
</div>

_You can find more resources about Kuzzle Javascript SDK in the [SDK Reference]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6)._

## Subscribe to realtime document notifications (pub/sub)

Kuzzle provides pub/sub features that can be used to trigger real-time notifications based on the state of your data (for a deep-dive on notifications check out the <a href="{{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6/essentials/realtime-notifications/">realtime notifications</a> documentation).

> Let's get started. Create a `subscribe.js` file with following code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's get started. Create a `subscribe.js` file with the following code:
```

[snippet=subscribe]

> Run your file in Node.js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the code with Node.js:
```

```bash
node subscribe.js
```

> Your `subscribe.js` app is now running and monitoring any documents that match the filter, specifically documents that have a `license` field that is equals to `'B'`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `subscribe.js` program is now running endlessly, waiting for notifications about documents matching its filters, specifically documents that have a `license` field equal to `'B'`.
```

> Now in another terminal, launch the `create.js` file that we created in the previous section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now in another terminal, launch the `create.js` file from the previous section.
```

```bash
node create.js
```

> This will create a new document in Kuzzle which will trigger a [document notification]({{ site_base_path }}api/1/essentials/notifications/#documents-changes-messages-default) in the `subscribe.js` app. Check the `subscribe.js` terminal to make sure a new log appears every time a document is created using the `create.js` app:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This creates a new document in Kuzzle which, in turn, triggers a [document notification]({{ site_base_path }}api/1/essentials/notifications/#documents-changes-messages-default) sent to the `subscribe.js` program.  
Check the `subscribe.js` terminal: a new message is printed everytime a document is created using the `create.js` code.
```

```bash
New driver Sirkis with id AWccRe3-DfukVhSzMdUo has B license.
```

<div class="alert alert-success">

> Congratulations! You have just choreographed your first pub/sub pattern!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You have just set up your first pub/sub communication!
```

</div>

<div class="alert alert-info">
Having trouble? Get in touch with us on <a href="https://gitter.im/kuzzleio/kuzzle">Gitter!</a> We're happy to help.
</div>

## Where do we go from here?

Now that you're more familiar with Kuzzle, dive even deeper to learn how to leverage its full capabilities:

> * take a look at the <a href="{{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6">SDK Reference</a>

Reviewer 2: That link redirects... to this same page, since this is the landing of the JS SDK.

```suggestion
* discover what this SDK has to offer by browsing other sections of this documentation
```

* learn how to use <a href="{{ site_base_path }}koncorde/1">Koncorde</a> to create incredibly fine-grained and blazing-fast subscriptions

> * follow our guide to learn how to implement <a href="{{ site_base_path }}guide/1/essentials/user-authentication/#local-strategy">basic authentication</a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* follow our guide to learn how to perform a <a href="{{ site_base_path }}guide/1/essentials/user-authentication/#local-strategy">basic authentication</a>
```

> * follow our guide to learn how to implement <a href="{{ site_base_path }}guide/1/essentials/security/">manage users and setup fine-grained access control</a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* follow our guide to learn how to <a href="{{ site_base_path }}guide/1/essentials/security/">manage users, and how to set up fine-grained access control</a>
```
